---
layout: post
title:  "Notes: Wireframes"
date:   2015-11-10 00:00:00 -0700
categories:
published: false
---

=======
# ??? etc
CNN.com runs a bunch of console.log()s. Why didn't they take them out?
"browser chrome" is the menu, toolbars, etc. on any browser, not just Google chrome

Wireframe vs Mockup
- [Norman Nielson Group](http://www.nngroup.com/) "Evidence based user experience research." Everything you need to know about the state of web design.

# No more separation between coder and designer
- Everyone needs at least a little design chops
- As a coder, you're already making tons of design decisions


# Information architecture

## Content inventory
- A list of all the things that need to be included on the site
- Start with this
- User driven, businessy decisions
- Steve Jobs ~ "design is how it works, not how it looks."
- Group similar items
- Rank in terms of importance

## Ways to make prominence
- Size
  - font size
  - font weight
- contrast
  - Reversed text is more impactful, but harder on your eyes to read long passages. Usually have to use a thicker weight
- whitespace
- centered
- Position -- top left is the most powerful position on the page

### Ad-blindness
In web era, our brains filter out anything that looks ad-like.
- Banner
- Text centered
- Feels selly
- Doesn't fit with the rest of design?

# Wireframe
## Thumbnail sketches
- As many as you can in a short amount of time
- Ten seconds per design
- Whole site in ten seconds
- Generate 20 - 30
- See which ones jump out, have the feel
- Go big to small. Leave out polish and micro-interactions.
- While it's cheap, do it a whole bunch of different ways.

## drawing the Wireframe
- Can use shading, but not colors
### micro-interactions
These types of considerations
- Checkboxes vs Drop-down vs multi-select(?)
- radio buttons - <5
- if >5
  - input masking (where it autocompletes)
- [Yahoo design pattern library](https://developer.yahoo.com/ypatterns/) is a list of all these types of things

### Grids
- Can help us visualize and quantify information hierarchy
- 12 column grid  
- Think in terms of inline and block. Not "I want this there."
### Mobile first
- Design for mobile first, then add stuff for the larger devices
- Play with visual hierarchy in a smaller space
- Forces decisions about hierarchy
- Much simpler to start here
- The desktop version is increasingly becoming the edge case
- Lines between devices becoming blurred
  - Think instead about it in terms of breakpoints

# Markup your Mockup
- Jot the tags on top of your wireframe
- Way faster than typing

### Tools
- [UI Templates make it faster to draw](http://www.uistencils.com/collections/stencils/products/everyday-carry-kit)
